---
id: 2022-188
year:
  - 2022
subspecialty: NR
correctAnswer: C
concepts: []
checked: false
genHash: 80ca03446f41
---
#交換 #2022交換 #NR According to the 2018 Thyroid Imaging Reporting and Data System (TI-RADS), which Committee of the American College of Radiology (ACR) published, which of the following statement is **wrong**?
(A) In ACR TI-RADS, nodules classified as spongiform are not subject to further feature assignment and are treated as benign, with no further follow-up needed.
(B) It should be possible to make this determination by observation; if the cystic components comprise less than 50%, the nodule should not be treated as spongiform.
(C) Additionally, the presence of other features such as peripheral calcifications or macrocalcifications, which are usually easy to recognize, means that a nodule should also be classified as spongiform.
(D) Nodules with shadowing calcifications that preclude assessment of their architecture are assumed to be solid and therefore receive 2 points for composition.
??
**Ans: C**
spongiform相關敘述沒提到calcification。
A. **正確**。spongiform nodule: highly correlated with benign cytology 不用再管其他東西(regardless of its relative echogenicity or other features)。可能看到small echogenic foci，不過沒關係(probably represent the back walls of minute cysts...not suspicious...should not add to the point...)
B. **正確**。A spongiform nodule must be composed predominantly **(> 50%) of small cystic spaces**. Nodules should not be characterized as spongiform solely on the basis of the presence of a few, scattered cystic components in an otherwise solid nodule. 定義上spongiform nodule須以cystic space為主，需>50%。
D. **正確**。如果鈣化的acoustic shadowing造成評估困難，最好 best to assume that the **nodule is solid** and assign 2 points for composition and 1 point for echogenicity.


