---
id: 2022-037
year:
  - 2022
subspecialty: ABD
correctAnswer: E
concepts: []
checked: false
genHash: f5e5a3783e35
---
#交換 #2022交換 #ABD [[Hepatocellular adenoma]]s are currently categorized into 3 distinct genetic and pathologic subtypes: (1) Inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas, (2) Hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha (HNF-1a)–mutated hepatocellular adenomas, and (3) b-catenin–mutated hepatocellular adenomas. Which statement about hepatocellular adenoma is **incorrect**?
(A) Inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas usually show intense enhancement during the arterial phase, which persists in the portal venous and delayed phases.
(B) HNF-1a–mutated hepatocellular adenomas demonstrate signal drop-off with chemical shift sequence because of intracellular steatosis.
(C) b-Catenin–mutated hepatocellular adenoma showed no specific imaging patterns and may mimic hepatocellular carcinomas at imaging.
(D) Most common complications of hepatocellular adenomas are intratumoral bleeding and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma.
(E) Among all hepatocellular adenomas, the inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas are the least aggressive subtype.
??
**Ans: E**
A. **正確**。HCA pattern：T2 heterogenous, A-phase blush of enhancement，portal, delayed phase: **接近isointense**。
B. **正確**。HNF-1a type 含較多fat。
C. 部長說有問題的HBP phase可能會亮起來(Inflammatory, β-catenin)。但的確不容易區分。
D. **正確**，bleeding不知道是intratumoral還是破出去。
- Hemorrhage (20%–25% of cases) and malignant transformation (5%–8% of cases) are worrisome complications and can be predicted on the basis of size and subtype.
- I-HCAs and sonic hedgehog HCAs have an increased risk of spontaneous bleeding.
- The risk factors for malignant transformation are male sex, size greater than 5 cm, **β-catenin** mutations, and TERT promoter mutation
E. 應該是有β-catenin的。


