---
id: 2021-033
year:
  - 2021
subspecialty: CV
correctAnswer: B
concepts: []
checked: false
genHash: 890abdea9302
---
#交換 #2021交換 #CV Which of the following statements is **false** about anomalous origin of coronary artery?
(A) The ALCAPA syndrome (anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery) is among the differential diagnoses for massive cardiomegaly in the newborn
(B) Artery courses downward (hammock sign) below the crista supraventricularis in interarterial course
(C) Prepulmonic coronary arteries are particularly common in tetralogy of Fallot (D)Transseptal course does not have an oblong or slitlike orifice
??
**Ans: B**
Artery courses downward (hammock sign) below the crista supraventricularis in **Transseptal** Variant.
- Origin from the Pulmonary Artery
- Origin of a coronary artery from the pulmonary artery is usually discovered owing to severe clinical manifestations. In this entity, the LMCA more commonly originates from the pulmonary artery. This pattern was described in 1956 and retains the eponym of the authors who described it (Bland-Garland-White syndrome). This entity is also known by the acronym ALCAPA (anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery). Since its initial description, ALCAPA has been recognized to constitute 0.25%–0.5% of cases of congenital heart disease Patients usually present with symptoms of myocardial ischemia or with left ventricular volume overload due to left-to-right shunting. The entire coronary arterial system is usually markedly enlarged and tortuous as a result of increased flow. ALCAPA syndrome is among the differential diagnoses for massive cardiomegaly in the newborn period, a finding that is one of the classic features of this entity at presentation
- Prepulmonic Course
- Normally, the major coronary arteries are never found in a position anterior to the pulmonary outflow tract or pulmonary artery. When a prepulmonic artery is present, it usually poses no hemodynamic consequences, although some case reports posit an association with angina (52).
- Prepulmonic coronary arteries are particularly common in tetralogy of Fallot, in which the prepulmonic artery may complicate the surgical approach to correction of pulmonary outflow tract stenosis (53). Usually, the prepulmonic vessel is the LMCA (Fig 11), although the RCA may originate from the LAD artery or LMCA and subsequently take a prepulmonic course
- Interarterial Course
- Several reasons have been suggested for the association between interarterial coronary arteries and sudden cardiac death. It has been postulated that interarterial coronary arteries tend to have a more slitlike orifice and that the slitlike orifice is more prone to occlusion
# 其他coronary
## CAD


