---
id: 2021-004
year:
  - 2021
subspecialty: Breast
correctAnswer: C
concepts: []
checked: false
genHash: b3a999f15ad8
---
#交換 #2021交換 #Breast When axillary adenopathy is seen at screening mammography with no suspicious findings in the breasts. Which of the following is **false** as according to ACR BI-RADS Atlas® 5th Edition?
(A) Bilateral axillary sonography should be performed to confirm that the finding is asymmetric/unilateral.
(B) In the absence of a known infectious or inflammatory cause, isolated unilateral axillary adenopathy should receive a suspicious (BI-RADS category 4) assessment.
(C) Bilateral axillary adenopathy should be assessed as benign (BI-RADS category 2) because they are frequently reactive/infectious in origin.
(D) Unilateral axillary adenopathy suggests occult breast carcinoma or, much less commonly, lymphoma, metastatic melanoma, ovarian cancer, or other metastatic cancer. Consequently, a careful search of the ipsilateral breast images is warranted.
??
**Ans: C**
Bilateral axillary adenopathy would be assessed as benign (BI-RADS® category 2) in some situations and as suspicious (BI-RADS® category 4) in others.
- Bilateral axillary adenopathy is frequently reactive/infectious in origin, such as with inflammatory conditions (sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosis, psoriasis, etc.) and HIV. => Bi-RADS 2
- - If there is no known explanation for bilateral adenopathy, and particularly if it is new, then it may be a sign of lymphoma/leukemia, and a suspicious (BI-RADS® category 4) assessment is warranted, with a recommendation for US-guided FNA or core biopsy.


