---
id: 2020-077
year:
  - 2020
subspecialty: CH
correctAnswer: D
concepts: []
checked: false
genHash: e10c269fdb64
---
#交換 #2020交換 #CH About pulmonary hypertension (PH), which description is **wrong**?
(A) An enlarged pulmonary artery diameter is greater than 29 mm. This diameter of must be measured in he axial plane at the bifurcation
(B) In all types of PH there is an imbalance among vasodilators and vasoconstrictors, growth inhibitors, endothelial growth factors, mitogenic factors, and prothrombotic and antithrombotic factors that results in pulmonary endothelial dysfunction.
(C) Centrilobular ground-glass nodules are a well-known finding in patients with PH.
(D) Some imaging findings in left heart disease overlap those found in veno-occlusive disease. The key to differentiation is the right atrial enlargement present in left-sided cardiac disease but not in pulmonary veno-occlusive disease.
??
**Ans: D**
- The key to differentiation is the left atrial enlargement present in left-sided cardiac disease but not in PVOD.
- Centrilobular ground-glass nodules are a well-known but poorly understood finding in patients with PH. They are considered a manifestation of severe PH and are rarely present in untreated idiopathic PAH. These ground-glass nodules may represent cholesterol granulomas due to degradation of excess of surfactant or to recurrent pulmonary hemorrhage or foci of plexogenic arterial lesions.
- Smooth septal lines, geographic or nodular ground-glass opacities, and pleural effusion should raise suspicion for PVOD or PCH over other causes of PH.


